- [Instructor] Now, we want to implement the get request
for the search use case in an application.
So, this is how an application looks like.
I'm just going to show you the demo
and then, we'll implement it
in our freshly made application.
So, if I click on this search hyperlink
and let's say I ended a search criteria
and click on the search button,
what do I see?
I see the products relevant to the search criteria.
Let's say if I go back to search
and try to enter some other search criteria,
let's say vitamin, and I click on search again,
I will get the products relative
to the vitamin search criteria.
And, all of this is a get request.
If you look at the browser URL
the data is going as a query string
that we discussed in a previous video.
So, we're going to implement this entire scenario
for our application and only with a get request.
So, let's get started.
The first thing that we need to notice,
we need to stick to this approach.
We are going to go to HTML.
From there, we will hit a servlet
and from the servlet we are going to call our DAO layer
which is going to interact with our database.
Right.
The other part is, let's come to the code.
Index to HTML is that landing page that we have
and this is that section of search
in which I was trying to enter some search criteria.
That's the input box and that's the submit button.
Now, all of these controls are
inside the form element of your HTML.
So what we are going to do is whenever you enter anything
in this search box and click on the submit button
we are going to submit this form
on the server side via a get request.
That's what we are going to do.
Okay.
Another thing is that when the request goes
to the servlet it is going
to retrieve the products for us against the database
and come back with that product data.
That data is going to be displayed on another page
which is search results dot HTML.
Now, this is the section which displays the products.
Now, let's understand this bit.
This is an HTML file and the product data
that we get from the database is
in the form of Java objects.
Unfortunately, HTML only understands static code.
So, we wouldn't be able to write out the data
out of those Java objects on this page.
So, what we are going to do is
we have already got a template for this page.
In our servlet code, we will read this entire template
as a string.
Now, let's look at this section
which is displaying products.
Each product is going to be signified
by a division element
and each of them has an images and a product name.
If you see, the SRC attribute
of every image has been given a placeholder.
Similarly, the name of the product, also,
has been give another placeholder.
The same thing has been done for the rest
of the two division elements as well.
Additionally, I have one more paragraph attribute
at line number 47 which is going
to display the items in cart for me.
Right now, it is, of course, zero
because I have not added any product to the cart,
but that value is also signified
with the help of a placeholder.
So, the idea here is to read this
entire HTML template as a string.
Then, replace these placeholders
with the respective data values coming from the database.
And then, to drive that entire static string
back to the client.
We will have to adapt this approach
because right now, we do not know what a JSP is.
We don't know how to generate dynamic content.
Right.
So, let's do that.
Now, there are a lot of steps that we need to carry out
so, we want to go one by one.
The first one is we are going to write
a search servlet class with the do get method.
So, let's go to Eclipse.
And, I have the search servlet template ready with me
with the do get method.
There are a lot of statements that we need
to carry out as a part of this use case.
Let's look at them one by one.
The first step will be to collect the search string
which was entered by the user
and pass it to the application DAO class.
What this means is whatever the search criteria
that the user tried to enter into
that text box the first step is to collect
that search criteria inside this method.
Now, we already know how to collect the data
from the request object.
So, we want to go ahead and do that.
Let's say string
search string equal to.
Let's take the request object
and call that get parameter API.
And, feed the name of that element
which is nothing but search.
And, once we do this, we are now going to set up the DAO layer.
The DAO layer is going to be a simple class
which is application DAO.
So, it's already created under the DAO folder in my package.
Now, there's a template for the method that is ready.
We'll talk about this.
But, before that, there are a couple of things.
When you talk about the DAO layer,
it's basically conversing with the database.
In order to talk with the database,
you need a connection to the database
and then you need a method for doing the transaction.
Now, the connection part of that database
is in comparison to this DB connection dot java file.
Now, since this is JDBC code
and it's not directly related to the servlet part,
we've written out that code already
and I'm going to explain that code to you.
The motive of this class is
to get a connection to the database.
We know that in the set of we've
already included the my SQL driver jar file.
So, now we are ready to go ahead and write out this code.
We are first taken a connection reference variable
which is initially set to null value on line number ten.
After that, we have a try-catch block
which is writing out the code to get a connection.
So, let's look at the steps one by one.
Line number 15 is class dot for name
and it specifies the fully qualified class name
of the driver class.
This is to basically load the driver class
into the memory of JBM.
Once that is done, we have a sys out
which is just trying to log something
which is just telling the user
that we have registered the driver class.
The next step on line number 19 is
you get the connection reference
and you consult the driver manager
and call the get connection API.
Now, all of these classes,
please know they're coming from the Java dot SQL package.
So, we want to call this API
and this API demands three arguments.
The first one, as you see, is the database server URL,
that is on which machine is your database
residing the details of that.
So, local host because the application
and the database server both are on the same machine.
Otherwise you would have to embed the IP address
in place of local host.
3306 is the default port on
which my SQL database server runs.
And, hplus is the schema name
that we have decided for our project.
The next two arguments are basically the credentials
to the database.
So, when you feed all this information
to the get connection API of driver manager
that's when you get your connection object.
If anything goes wrong in the class loading
on line number 15, it could possibly throw you
a class not found exception
for which this catch block has been encapsulated.
Anything goes wrong on line number 19
to get the connection from the driver manager
there could be an SQL exception thrown
for which there is another designated catch block.
So, after all of this is done,
we just have to check whether we indeed
got the connection object by making a quick null check
on line number 32.
And, after that, we just return the connection
to the calling method.
So, this class is solely to establish a connection
to the database and return that object to you.
Right.
Now, the DAO class that we have
for our application is application DAO
and inside that, I've already added a method.
So, I'm just going to go to the PPT
and check on the steps.
We have collected the search string entered by the user
and now we want to pass that to the application DAO.
But, in order to pass, we have to add a method
for searching the products in the application DAO class.
So, that method is going to return all the products.
So, we look at this method in the next video.